The point of this project was to find what the cause of the biggest wild fire by size was for each US state and each US region. As certain regions and states depending on population, land and other factors are more likely to specific causes of wildfires. In finding this information these regions and states can be better prepared and use better equipment specifically to stop fires faster and reduce fatalities and properties lost. But the main reason to find the biggest wildfire in each region and the cause of it was to show what cause has affected the region the most and how maybe more resources can be used to prevent a wildfire of the size to happen again. 

Two datasets were used one of wildfires that happened between 1992-2020 for the US which included size, cause and state, the other dataset was of states which included the size,name, FIPCODES, GEOID and more.

Geospatial maps were created of the US first of just the US states and the cause of the biggest wildfire. Then the US states were grouped into four regions: West, South, Northeast, and Midwest. After this a geospatial map was created of the US and the US regions and the cause of the biggest wildfire in each region. Many plots were made as well such as scatter plot to help visualize the size of wildfires in each region and the size difference between each regions biggest wildfire, and bar plot to help visualize first the general cause of wildfires and the amount of each cause between 1992-2020

A lot of research went into this as well as the east coast has more population then the west so the midwest and northeast regions of the US are prone to more fires caused by arson. Whilte west is a lot more open and drier so the area is more prone to natural caused fires such as lightening. But the take way from this project is that we now know what the cause of the biggest fire in each region is. While we know the causes for the West is natural and for the Midwest and Northeast it is arson. For the South we got the cause to be: missing data/not specified/undetermined. With these results it can better prepare not only firefighters but also the people to keep in mind what could cause a major fire in the area they live. The results can also better spread resources to regions to help fight specific fires.

